Here we have an environment with several obstacles.
We can call this the workspace.
Our goal path planning is to find a path between
some start location and some end location that avoids collision with obstacles.
If we treat the robot as a single point,
then the task of path planning is quite simple.
Within this workspace, the robot can move anywhere in the free space.
That is the space not occupied by obstacles.
The robot can even travel along the wall of an obstacle.
After all, we're representing it as a dimensionless point.
In such a case, the path planning problem is relatively simple.
Find a curved or piece wise linear path connecting the robot
start pose to the goalpost that does not collide with any obstacles.
Here are just two examples of such possible paths.
As long as there is an infinitesimally small gap between two obstacles,
a point robot would be able to squeeze through.
However, in reality robots have more dimensions than a point.
If we model a robot as a two-dimensional disc,
and try to attempt to follow the same paths that we developed earlier,
we may run into trouble.
Some of the paths may have the robot collide with obstacles.
So, what do we do?
For every step of the path,
we could compute the distance from the robot center to every obstacle,
and ensure that the space is greater than the radius of the robot.
But that would be a lot of work.
The same can be accomplished in an easier manner.
We can inflate every single obstacle by the radius of the robot,
and then treat the robot as a point.
Doing so, has shown us that the upper path is
no longer an option for the robot of this size.
The robot would not be able to fit in between the two obstacles.
The other path is still viable.
This representation of the environment is called
the configuration space or the C space for short.
A configuration space is a set of all robot poses.
The C space is divided into C Free and C Obstacle.
C Free represents the set of poses in
the free space that do not collide with any obstacles.
Seen here in dark blue,
and C Obstacle is the compliment to C Free,
representing the set of robot pauses that are in collision with obstacles or walls,
represented here in gray.